[ENH] Added the specification for using HED libraries in BIDS (#1106)
bids-standard/bids-specification: src/99-appendices/03-hed.md

(for example using the `bids-validator`).

Example: The following `dataset_description.json` file specifies that the
[`HED8.1.0.xml`](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/tree/master/hedxml/HED8.1.0.xml)
file from the `hedxml` directory of the
[`hed-specification`](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification)
repository on GitHub should be used to validate the study event annotations.

```JSON
{
  "Name": "A great experiment",

>   "BIDSVersion": "1.7.0",

Reviewer: Since we're changing so much else of this file, is there a reason _not_ to change it? We recommend taggers use the latest version of the base schema, so having the documentation match the latest version seems reasonable. It's not like we're making a PR just for this one change.

>   "BIDSVersion": "1.7.0",

Author: It is true that 8.0.0 supports everything from the perspective of the person annotating and it is a nice round number. I don't have a strong feeling either way on this.

(for example using the `bids-validator`).

Example: The following `dataset_description.json` file specifies that the
[`HED8.1.0.xml`](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/tree/master/hedxml/HED8.1.0.xml)
file from the `hedxml` directory of the
[`hed-specification`](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification)
repository on GitHub should be used to validate the study event annotations.

```JSON
{
  "Name": "A great experiment",
  "BIDSVersion": "1.7.0",
  "HEDVersion": "8.1.0"
}
```

If you omit the `HEDVersion` field from the dataset description file,
any present HED information will be validated using the latest version of the HED schema.
This is bound to result in problems, and hence, it is strongly RECOMMENDED that the
`HEDVersion` field be included when using HED in a BIDS dataset.

### Using HED library schemas

HED also allows you to use one or more specialized vocabularies along with or instead of
the standard vocabulary. These specialized vocabularies are developed by
communities of users and are available in the GitHub
[hed-schema-library](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library) repository.

> Library schema are specified by *library-name*_*library-version*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Library schema are specified in the form `<library-name<_>library-version>`.
```

Author: Library schema names must be alphabetic.  I read over the HED specification, and it is not spelled out as clearly as it should be. I'll make sure it is.  Library schema must use semantic versioning.  Again, it isn't spelled out as clearly as it could be in the HED specification. I'll make sure that it is.  Thanks for your suggestions.

Example: The following `dataset_description.json` file specifies that the
[HED8.1.0.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/tree/master/hedxml/HED8.1.0.xml)
standard schema should be used along with the
SCORE library for clinical neurological annotation and a test library.

> These later schemas are located at [HED_score_0.0.1.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/score/hedxml/HED_score_0.0.1.xml) and [HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/testlib/hedxml/HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml), respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These later schemas are located at
[HED_score_0.0.1.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/score/hedxml/HED_score_0.0.1.xml) and
[HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/testlib/hedxml/HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml), respectively.
```

the standard vocabulary. These specialized vocabularies are developed by
communities of users and are available in the GitHub
[hed-schema-library](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library) repository.
Library schema are specified in the form `<library-name<_>library-version>`.

Example: The following `dataset_description.json` file specifies that the
[HED8.1.0.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/tree/master/hedxml/HED8.1.0.xml)
standard schema should be used along with the
SCORE library for clinical neurological annotation and a test library.
These later schemas are located at
[HED_score_0.0.1.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/score/hedxml/HED_score_0.0.1.xml) and
[HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/testlib/hedxml/HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml), respectively.

```JSON
{
  "Name": "A great experiment",
  "BIDSVersion": "1.7.0",
  "HEDVersion": ["8.1.0", "sc:score_0.0.1", "ts:testlib_1.0.2"]
}
```
The `sc:` and `ts:` are user-chosen prefixes used to distinguish the sources
of the terms in the HED annotation.

> These prefixes must be alphanumeric.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These prefixes MUST be alphanumeric.
```

The following HED annotation from this dataset uses the `sc:` prefix with
`Photomyogenic-response` and `Wicket-spikes` because these terms are from the
SCORE library, while `Data-feature` is from the standard HED schema.

```Text
Data-feature, sc:Photomyogenic-response, sc:Wicket-spikes
```

If only one schema is being used for annotation, the prefix can be omitted entirely.
The following `dataset_description.json` indicates that only the SCORE library version

> 0.0.1 will be used for HED annotation in this dataset.

Reviewer 2: do we have a direct, stable link to the score library yet? -- would be good to put that here. Readers may then click on the link and get a practical impression of what an HED library is

Reviewer 2: @VisLab has SCORE been released yet? Can we put a link here now? If not, we can add it later.

Author: Score 1.0.0 is in prerelease and under active review.  We will need to add the link later.  We will do it in another PR as soon as it goes into release.

### Using HED library schemas

HED also allows you to use one or more specialized vocabularies along with
the base vocabulary. These specialized vocabularies are developed by
communities of users and are available in the GitHub
[hed-schema-library](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library) repository.

Example: The following `dataset_description.json` file specifies that the
[`HED8.1.0.xml`](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/tree/master/hedxml/HED8.1.0.xml)
base schema should be used along with the
SCORE library for clinical neurological annotation and a test library
located at [HED_score_0.0.1.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/score/hedxml/HED_score_0.0.1.xml) and [HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/testlib/hedxml/HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml), respectively.

```JSON
{
  "Name": "A great experiment",
  "BIDSVersion": "1.7.0",
  "HEDVersion": {
      "base": "8.1.0",
      "libraries": {
          "sc": "score_0.0.1",
          "ts": "testlib_1.0.2"
      }
  }
}
```
The `sc:` and `ts:` are user-chosen prefixes used to distinguish the sources

> of the terms in the HED annotation. In the following HED annotation:

Reviewer 2: what rules are there for user-chosen prefixes? Are there reserved keywords that MUST NOT be used? Are these supposed to be alphanumeric? Or just lower case letters a to z?

Author: There are no restrictions on what to use for a user-chosen prefix -- just that it be alphanumeric. It can even be an existing HED tag, although we recommend that it be short for readability.

The prefix does not have to be lowercase.  The examples use lower case because by style convention, HED tags start with an upper case letter, and the lower case prefix makes the tag string easier to read.

Reviewer 2: Okay, that makes sense -- I would encode this rule "user-chosen prefixes MUST be alphanumeric" into both the spec text and the schema

Reviewer 3: Let us know your thoughts on our SCORE schema library [here](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/issues/24). And a bids example with HED annotations using the SCORE schema library is coming soon!

which is bound to result in problems.
Hence, it is strongly RECOMMENDED that the `HEDVersion` field be included when using HED
in a BIDS dataset.

### Using HED library schemas

HED also allows you to use one or more specialized vocabularies along with
the base vocabulary. These specialized vocabularies are developed by
communities of users and are available in the GitHub
[hed-schema-library](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library) repository.

Example: The following `dataset_description.json` file specifies that the
[`HED8.1.0.xml`](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/tree/master/hedxml/HED8.1.0.xml)
base schema should be used along with the
SCORE library for clinical neurological annotation and a test library
located at [HED_score_0.0.1.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/score/hedxml/HED_score_0.0.1.xml) and [HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library/blob/main/library_schemas/testlib/hedxml/HED_testlib_1.0.2.xml), respectively.

```JSON
{
  "Name": "A great experiment",
  "BIDSVersion": "1.7.0",
  "HEDVersion": {
      "base": "8.1.0",
      "libraries": {

>           "sc": "score_0.0.1",

Reviewer 4: is this some "official" identity specification combining library and a version?  if not, may be worth separating out, even if more verbose:
```suggestion
          "sc": {"library": "score", "version": "0.0.1"},
```
or alike to make it explicit, and to allow in the future e.g. to expand with optional extra information (e.g. URL to the HED library which is not in **the** library of libraries i.e. [hed-schema-library](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-schema-library)) but available from another library of libraries or may be even directly pointed to by that URL?

Reviewer: Some version of what you suggest was the original plan (though URIs were never planned to be supported other than `bids:` schema paths within the dataset), but it was simplified during development after feedback from the HED community. @VisLab can provide more detail, which is escaping me.

Author: The suggestion is above is one that we have considered ([see hed-specification issue#156](https://github.com/hed-standard/hed-specification/issues/156)).  The actual format is only proposed at this point in the HED specification, and we would appreciate opinions and are open to changes.

We have gone through a number of versions of this, and originally we thought we would support a file within the bids data set itself and arbitrary URLs.  The HED working group consensus was to start with the standard libraries and see how it goes, since the purpose is to have standardized vocabularies to make meaningful comparisons across datasets.  

**On a related note:**
The `hed-python` tools allow a schema group to be passed into its BIDS data set constructor to override the specification in dataset_description.  Right now the `hed-javascript` public interface (which is what BIDS uses) only passes in the data set and constructs the schema group internally. 

I am mentioning this because another possibility is to allow a schema group to be passed in as part of the public interface to the `hed-javascript` validator (from bids) which would override the internal specification extracted from the `dataset_description`. This is relevant because we are going to have to do a major version bump to support the libraries because of another interface change and we could add this in as an option and allow BIDS to decide. @sappelhoff. @rwblair?

Reviewer: The specification of which schemas are to be used to be used for validating a dataset are provided in a separate parameter, since `hed-javascript` cannot handle relative paths within the BIDS dataset directory and needs them parsed to use the absolute path. However, the actual `Schema` and `Schemas` types used by the validator to represent schemas are considered implementation details (despite being returned by the `validator.buildSchema` function) and not part of the stable API. In theory, the object passed as the second argument to `validateBidsDataset` can be any object conforming to the defined API, regardless of what `datasetDescription.json` says.

          "ts": "testlib_1.0.2"
      }
  }
}
```
The `sc:` and `ts:` are user-chosen prefixes used to distinguish the sources
of the terms in the HED annotation.

> These prefixes must be alphanumeric.

Reviewer 4: can they start with a number, e.g. be "1"?

Author: Yes they can start with a number.

Reviewer 4: gut feeling tells me it might cause us pains, but I will just go take some Pepto to treat it ;)
